Gwenevere Abriel: Hey,
Wayne Dal: Let
Gwenevere Abriel: Me open up a note here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how was your last night.
Wayne Dal: Was a lot better.
Wayne Dal: My wife actually took the dogs out for a walk and
Wayne Dal: Had a good time.
Wayne Dal: So,
Wayne Dal: I just, I think I had to just talk to somebody yesterday and just get everything out, you know,
Uh huh.
Wayne Dal: So yeah, much better night.
It's fun. Thank you.
Wayne Dal: Thank you for your help with my medication.
Wayne Dal: And just to let you know I'm on two milligrams and two strips, because the bottle says dissolve two scripts that day.
Wayne Dal: So I'm thinking, oh, among humans.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: That was
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'm yeah
Wayne Dal: I just wanted to let you know that I'm not taking two strips. It's just two milligrams
Wayne Dal: So yeah, but
Wayne Dal: Thanks for your help on that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just forward it over to but you don't have to wait for me. Just go on. Just log into virtual clinic and say, hey, please get ahold of Dr. Raphael, she knows that I needed strips not tablets. The, could you reach her
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, just go in there.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Let's see. Where are we at
Gwenevere Abriel: She
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, we're good there. Um, what did we talk about last time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why don't you tell me what happened. Was your father in law.
Gwenevere Abriel: What, what was it that put you over the edge. Was it him having the pills around or something.
Wayne Dal: Yeah. Was that and you know my wife made a mistake. She
Wayne Dal: Well this time, you know, my wife like legally blind.
Wayne Dal: And she ran out of contacts and she can't see. So, you know, one morning, she was preparing his pills and
Wayne Dal: Not the bottle over and a bunch of them went down the sink.
Wayne Dal: You know, so do you have to go on and tell him, and he just like totally flip about, you know,
Because he's tired.
Wayne Dal: You know, so
Wayne Dal: And ever since that day he treated her like crap you know he hardly ever talked to her.
Wayne Dal: And he was just acting horrible, you know, and it's just like me and my wife did everything for that man everything
Wayne Dal: You know,
Wayne Dal: He has my wife has some brothers and you know they don't come around at all how at all.
Wayne Dal: So it's just like it.
Wayne Dal: It made me feel like
Wayne Dal: He didn't appreciate anything that we did for him, you know, and he was always complaining and it seemed like everything was it whatever we were doing wasn't
Wayne Dal: The one send it over the edge. Was I call and refill his prescriptions for him when they're ready.
Wayne Dal: To the doctor's office.
Wayne Dal: So I had called. I think it was last Monday I had called three fill his scripts.
Wayne Dal: And a couple of hours later he came in and he told me he called the doctor to fill the scripts and I'm like dude.
Wayne Dal: I already did that you know what
Wayne Dal: What, you know, what's your, what's your deal
Wayne Dal: You know, so I said, you
Wayne Dal: You don't need to worry about it. We talked, we and Tory, you know, take care of all this stuff for you. And he was just like, well, you need to let me know and I said you know i i really don't need to let you know anything because
Wayne Dal: We do this all the time.
Wayne Dal: For you, you know, and he and he was just, you know, withdraws and he was angry, and I know what he was going
Wayne Dal: Through me
Wayne Dal: But he didn't need to act out
Wayne Dal: You know, so I just told him, I said, you know what I said you need to appreciate what we me and Tory do for you. So we do everything for you.
Wayne Dal: And right away. He just said.
Wayne Dal: I don't need this. And I was just like, What don't you need I
Wayne Dal: Said, I'm letting you know.
Wayne Dal: That, you know, we take care of that. You don't have to worry about it and
Wayne Dal: He just went off on me, call me an asshole.
Wayne Dal: I was just like, Okay.
Wayne Dal: I said, I've been called worse than that.
Wayne Dal: You can call me and I saw, whatever, you know. And he said, Well, I don't need this. I'm moving out. He said he was like, Don't worry, I'm moving out. And at that point I just got pissed. And I said, You know what, that's fine. I said, leave now.
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: He ended up getting on the phone and calling somebody and and packing up a bag and
Wayne Dal: He took off, you know, after
Wayne Dal: After all this you know him calling me names and I admit, I did some
Wayne Dal: Like I said some stuff I shouldn't have said and probably made the situation a little bit worse. But, you know, no way, shape, or form. Did I ever tell him to move out of the house or
Wayne Dal: You know, I was disrespecting him or anything. And that's one thing to he was just like what you need to have some expect. And I said, you know what I said for five years, I've been respecting I've never disrespected you. I said,
Wayne Dal: You need to have some respect. I said, this is our house.
Wayne Dal: And that's when he said he was moving out. And that's all the stuff that happened, but of course you know i i was the bad guy. He told my wife lies because
Wayne Dal: Yeah, I
Wayne Dal: Know it's
Wayne Dal: In it's my wife knows, but I think she was kind of upset you know
Wayne Dal: And I know she's glad that she wasn't around when all this happened.
Wayne Dal: But I think in a way, she was kind of upset and I kind of felt like I should get my tongue or
Wayne Dal: You know, put a sock in my mouth and not said anything, but I couldn't deal with it. It was just like, enough is enough. And this man needs to know that he's not mistreated and you know he doesn't have to lift a finger, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, and that's what I told my wife. I said, Yeah. I said, he's going to find out now because I don't know where he went. Or who he is.
Wayne Dal: But
Wayne Dal: He's gonna find out. And so as the person who's staying with you know they're going to find out how difficult it is and
Wayne Dal: It doesn't, that's just, that's just what happened in a, in a nutshell, but if you know how it is.
Wayne Dal: I've been having these feelings for a long time, you know, with him and
Wayne Dal: Like I told my wife. This morning I said I don't dislike him I said I love him. You know, I'm just, I got sick and tired of the way he was acting and treating you and and it was just my time to say something and
Wayne Dal: You know, I just told her, like, I'm sorry. It wasn't on your time but
Wayne Dal: It was it was time for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you see
Gwenevere Abriel: From yesterday. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're welcome to it.
Wayne Dal: You're lying all the time.
Wayne Dal: And they were too.
Wayne Dal: So yeah, that's what I told her, and you know, I'm still here if he needs help you if he needs a ride to the doctor or whatever. I'm, I'm here. You know, it just depends on how he feels and and how he
Wayne Dal: Wants to portray me I guess to everyone else.
Wayne Dal: So, but I just let my wife, know that I'm here for him. And I know she's here program, and we'll see what happens. You know, I'm sure he'll be calling her
Wayne Dal: Because he's going to be managing his own medication. Now, and he just can't deal with having
Wayne Dal: His, His prescriptions, you know, taking him by himself and managing them and taking them away. They're supposed to be prescribed. So I'm sure he'll be running out here in another week or so and then he'll probably be calling my wife, making her feel guilty, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So what have you learned about how to let's say you're going to teach
Gwenevere Abriel: Tori.
Gwenevere Abriel: How to
Gwenevere Abriel: Not accept the guilt trip invitation, or let the guilt trip bus pass by. How would you teach her what to do. So in other words, how do you decline the guilt trip invitation.
Wayne Dal: It's hard with her.
Wayne Dal: I just
Wayne Dal: I just tell her you know it's not your fault.
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: Don't, don't let him make you think it's your fault.
Wayne Dal: You know, and it's really hard to
Wayne Dal: To step around or not upset her or thinking or or
Wayne Dal: Her thinking I'm attacking her, you know, in a certain way.
Wayne Dal: It's kind of hard. I gotta like tiptoe around stuff and and just
Wayne Dal: Not make her feel like I'm telling her what to do or
Wayne Dal: Or anything like that. So what I would, I would just tell her is you know it. I already told her. It's going to happen.
Wayne Dal: And there's nothing you can do. It's out of your control. You know, you can't control what he's doing.
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: We both know it's going to happen. So when it does, I said, all you have to do is tell him you're sorry and there's nothing you can do for him.
Wayne Dal: You know, but I just, I've told her. It's not your fault.
Gwenevere Abriel: So a little bit more specific. What would you say to me if I'm father in law and I say you guys never really cared about me. I'm all does fine, I'll just live on the streets.
Wayne Dal: Whatever told him, is I would tell him we took care of him, to the best of our ability. And if that's what he chooses to do, then that's his decision.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what would your if I if charring was to be told that. What do you think she would say to down
Wayne Dal: Right there, she would probably say something relatively about the same.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So one of the key things is, and you may have heard that in the group which is you you hold on to your truth even though I'm saying go on this trip called guilt trip.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can decline.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have to hold on to your truth which is
Gwenevere Abriel: My memory of it father in law is
Gwenevere Abriel: We enjoyed having you here and a lot of ways, I think there was some ongoing tension.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think you're more than welcome to be here again. But we do need to kind of have rules of kindness that needs to be in place. If that were to happen again just baseline kindness, just, you know, treat one another with the sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: Etiquette and polite that you would the pharmacist.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, or the or the bag lady at Safeway.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or the you know the or the person at the at Walmart where you would say good morning and you would be kind.
Gwenevere Abriel: You would use pleasantries. And I think that was missing. And maybe, you know, if we ever do decide to give this another try that would need to be there. Now, that's one of your story right just now you know me right I play out my own little thing in my head.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that that would be my thing. But what you got to hear is, I talked about my truth. I didn't take on what he said.
Gwenevere Abriel: That his, his approach. For example, the guilt trip is it's a manipulation and actually we end up resenting the person quite a bit. If we fall for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So instead, you just you just say your truth. Well, I love you. I love you, dad, and
Gwenevere Abriel: I think we got a little heated. I think there's probably, you and I, probably, I'm guessing I imagine we had both of us some some built up feelings and and we kind of popped off air a little
Gwenevere Abriel: You're always welcome on my home. If you ever need a ride anywhere. You know, I'm here for you. Don't be shy about about asking and I'm happy to to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you just leave it alone. You just say that and that and that and that. And again, and again, whatever. The truth is, that's I made that story up but you don't have to follow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Their guilt trip. You have to just decline it and just tell your truth.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, and I think I kind of did.
Wayne Dal: I fall because it did bother me a lot.
Wayne Dal: But after a while I was just like, you know, I didn't do anything wrong. But I learned the truth. And that was my truth and
Wayne Dal: You know,
Wayne Dal: So, after a while, it didn't bother me as much as the things that he said I was just like, whatever.
Wayne Dal: I know what you're going to do. I've been there so
Wayne Dal: You know I it bothered me for like a day or two.
Wayne Dal: And then I just
Wayne Dal: Kind of said, you know, like I didn't tell him anything disrespectful. I just told him what I felt right.
Wayne Dal: And and
Wayne Dal: What Ray said yesterday was just like
Wayne Dal: made so much sense and
Wayne Dal: I'm so glad that he
Wayne Dal: spoke up yesterday, cuz he, what he said was
Wayne Dal: Really I know came from his heart and I really took it. Yeah.
Wayne Dal: And I got a lot of support yesterday and I really enjoyed it. You know, hearing from any feedback from everybody. And it just after after yesterday's felt so much better.
Wayne Dal: You know,
Wayne Dal: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what they're for most people don't use
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, or you did. I'm really, really impressed. I'm helpful you're, you know, you're setting that stage for other people.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take yeah that's not too.
Wayne Dal: And I want to
Wayne Dal: I want to and you know a lot of people are are are shy and real secretive and don't want us to know what's going on in their lives, but
Wayne Dal: Lou. I feel as if, if you're really having problems, you know, it's better to talk about about what's going on and get some feedback and you know you do feel better and understand, you know, we're strangers, you know, and
Wayne Dal: People, some people have a hard time but the way I feel now is just like, you know, if I have something to say. I'm going to say it. And if I'm feeling a certain way. I'm going to say it.
Wayne Dal: Because I know there's there's people in there that support me and
Wayne Dal: Really, I could I could care less if if they judge me or think differently about me or if I cry or whatever.
Wayne Dal: Because we're all going to the same same stuff. Yeah, when when it comes out into the open when we finally start talking about it, everyone's going to the same thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: Good girl. Very good group very effective. So, that was fun to be a part of.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's let's touch on, you know, some other relationships, maybe. And also, you were talking not only about
Gwenevere Abriel: What the circumstances more for the self medicating behavior. And so we talked about circumstance. And we talked about shifting mindset.
Gwenevere Abriel: But let's spend a little bit of time also talking about
Gwenevere Abriel: Other coping skills.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know and and what might be missing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And maybe you could be doing
Gwenevere Abriel: That becomes a habit, instead of the old way of thinking. Which, by the way.
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't go completely relapse. You just self medicated okay the behavior was the same, but it's not it's not the same as giving up on recovery that would have been you dropped out of brain, heart started drinking and taking pills, again, that would be a relapse.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Okay, so we're just going to call this just a little, a little slip, but it's so small.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And so now when you had a restart today. What did you notice about where you how your mindset was about the medication and how you want it today to go because now it's the next day we get to see right away, kind of how your mindset is
Wayne Dal: Oh, I just woke up feeling positive
Wayne Dal: I didn't feel like it was
Wayne Dal: Like yesterday it was just seemed like a down day and it was just like, it felt just like there was a cloud over my head. No.
Wayne Dal: But today I woke up.
Wayne Dal: really early.
Wayne Dal: I just felt really positive and
Wayne Dal: You know me and my wife got up with the puppy and
Wayne Dal: Coffee and and
Wayne Dal: Just, just was a good
Wayne Dal: I'm going to get mindset right now and
Wayne Dal: As far as my medication goes you know I know I can get back down to where I was, and I'm going to
Wayne Dal: do my best to do it.
Wayne Dal: Okay, you know, my goal is still be off Suboxone by hitting hitting here.
Wayne Dal: You know, so that hasn't changed, but
Wayne Dal: I know, I know it's gonna be hard, and there's gonna be bumps in the road on the way. But I just got to have that confidence in
Myself.
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: Just be proud of myself.
Wayne Dal: My accomplishments and how far I've come. So that's, that's my mindset to be
Wayne Dal: Back on track and
Wayne Dal: And keep on rolling
Gwenevere Abriel: Call. Alright, so if we just go with just the facts. We've got went up to two milligrams of buprenorphine which day was. That was it. On Monday, was it on Sunday.
Wayne Dal: It was done it was on Monday when I saw
Wayne Dal: Dr Edelman Edelman, said his name.
Wayne Dal: Yes, on the 13th.
Wayne Dal: And the 13th. Because remember, I was saying that I was having just like
Wayne Dal: Just difficult
Gwenevere Abriel: April 13
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Haha, because I've got it, I've got, I've got a note here from for 14 went up to 1.5 so maybe there may have been some minimization. Maybe you were minimizing that time. Okay. All right. All right, so it was actually up to okay up to tip. Okay.
Wayne Dal: It's just good to
Wayne Dal: Just speak the truth. And that's all I can do. You know, I just want to be honest and
And
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's break it down a little bit on on shakes. Tell me how your body felt on two milligrams versus
Gwenevere Abriel: Was it originally supposed to be 175 or something. It was
Wayne Dal: It was originally 1.5
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so tell me the physiological difference. You've already said, the truth. So now I can get into it. There's nothing to hide. What was the actual physical difference between 1.5 and two
Wayne Dal: The difference was
Wayne Dal: I wasn't irritable.
Wayne Dal: Didn't feel tired.
Wayne Dal: I didn't have the heavy legs.
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: Energy to do to get up and do things.
Wayne Dal: I was able to sleep.
Wayne Dal: I didn't have the sweats.
Wayne Dal: And I didn't feel like this weird
Wayne Dal: I don't know how to describe it. So,
Wayne Dal: Kind of just like out of it. It's just like
Wayne Dal: I swear, like I look at something on the floor and I'd see like color.
Wayne Dal: That wasn't even there, it was just weird.
Wayne Dal: You know, so there was a big there was a big difference.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's slow down. Stay here. Now let's go all the way back to the original taper, of which I don't know the day come back to the original taper period at 1.5
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you stabilize at 1.5 looks like had to go up to the cravings. So it looks like I got a little note 131 the end of March.
Gwenevere Abriel: Had you gone
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I see. Okay. So had to go
Wayne Dal: Up did occur when I was at one and one was just couldn't do it. I was just not feeling well at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so hold on. Don't say anything. Hold on. Did you when you were tapering down to one where you tapering a whole milligram at a time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay so that's I've watched. I've been watching, y'all. That's really fast and I've I'm watching when you guys get down into this
Gwenevere Abriel: two milligrams. When you start getting in there. I would recommend you taper.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like talk with you, Doc. Obviously this is outside my lane, but just as having been a witness. When I see people go down point two five milligram or I see people taper at point five.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're not in distress, like you're describing, so I think it's not it's not a matter of that there's a problem with the tapering I think that this is where we you really see the stickiness of these receptors. This is where a big
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of biochemical changes happening and what I've watched is, those of you who who say I need to go slower.
Gwenevere Abriel: As in the the taper amount. So going down point two five. So I don't, you know, talk with your doctor about does that need to be I I use a two milligrams tablet or, you know, talk with her about how to do it so that you can pull it off with that kind of differential
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know whether you need to get a scale that has this this exact little weight. I have no idea about that part. But I've been listening to her and the clients that do it this way, then they don't have what you what happened to you, which is they can't get
Gwenevere Abriel: Feeling their new normal again. And they end up going back up. So you're not alone up. I just think it was too fast for your body. So when you approach it. Don't approach it like
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll never be able to get down again, just see it as I'm going to do it differently. I'm going to go down in a smaller dose smaller taper rate make sense.
Wayne Dal: It definitely makes sense. And I know we've we've talked about it a lot, you know, going, going by, you know, half a milligram per
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: I don't know, I just
Wayne Dal: I guess maybe I was just in too much of a hurry.
Wayne Dal: I thought I know now it's just like
Wayne Dal: I can't be in a hurry. I can I just
Gwenevere Abriel: People
Gwenevere Abriel: I've got people that are, point, point two five. And they're just staying there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because they tried this other and they're just they're not quite ready it's done quite air. So don't look because here's what's happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're confusing off with down. So don't, we're not on an off taper off a treatment plan. So let's let when you decide I want to taper off that's months from now.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you'll feel the difference. You'll feel it it, but it's not right now. Can we just call this your tapering down. That's all.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you're ready to go off. That's a lot more management from the doctor. There's other support medications that go on.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not going to be doing this willy nilly, it's not going to just be all of a sudden, it's going to feel really deliberate and on purpose.
Gwenevere Abriel: This last like two months that you say that's it. Now I'm resolved. I'm committed, I want to do a taper taper off protocol, it's gonna be different, a different medication different frequency that can be checking in with her.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just say it's what you said you rushed, there's been other times that you've done this, too. And this is, that's okay so that you did this one I'm suspecting it as
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't like being at it right you don't like it.
Wayne Dal: No.
Wayne Dal: Like I said yesterday, it's hard to
Wayne Dal: To have to get up and take medication to feel
Wayne Dal: Normal and to go about your day and
Wayne Dal: And that's what people don't understand. So yeah, I don't make it
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but that just like it's getting in the way of a really. I mean, you put you put all this all these hours of treatment. Right. Right. But I mean, you got to look at as an investment. It's like, well, why am I rushing right at the end.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can say you're excited right to to be completely free. That's exciting. But, but really honor that this, this is a big deal because it isn't. You're not doing this alone. You're doing it also not not using baby, which has had the tobacco in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It had all of this ritual to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was an outlet and it's not there. Okay. On top of that, this coronavirus financial challenges in our personal lives in LA in our personal was son, so just
Gwenevere Abriel: Put the reins on that fast, fast change just pull back a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just look at look at some facts here.
Gwenevere Abriel: You got to know your body. It's too fast for your body. So let's do it differently.
Gwenevere Abriel: But why still, even though you might say, gee, it was nice rain to have had those kind words.
Gwenevere Abriel: How come you still have this negative inner critic that somehow
Gwenevere Abriel: You're an addict and write that term itself or chemically dependent depending on sort of how you phrase it
Gwenevere Abriel: Even this far into your recovery still
Gwenevere Abriel: Is what I would call iOS and tonic. It's not something that you welcome. It's still what how do you feel when you think about what you are
Wayne Dal: To be honest, it's shame.
Wayne Dal: Because
Wayne Dal: I knew better.
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: Never a million years. Did I think I would be in the situation. I am now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, hold on. So notice what you just said.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to tell you you're going to laugh when you hear it back to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I knew better, never in a million years. Did I think I knew better. I never knew, I knew better. I never knew in a million years. I never thought, wait a minute. They're complete opposition. What do you mean you knew better, because your mom Drake.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did he do better.
Wayne Dal: Because I've
Wayne Dal: Was I've seen it. You know, I've seen what it does to people.
Opiates
Wayne Dal: I guess not really opiates. I guess just alcohol and just, you know,
Wayne Dal: Drugs.
Wayne Dal: On another hand, I just, I guess I really didn't
Wayne Dal: I didn't know what addiction was or dependency was, you know, cuz I never thought it could happen to me. I mean, I'm like, people will talk about. I mean, I could get addicted to these pills. I mean, how does that happen. And I mean, so I guess maybe denial. A lot
Wayne Dal: I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it possible that you started thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: That this whole field was based on willpower. You make up your mind to do something.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you're doing it once you make up your mind to stop by then, if you have good motivation, you'll stop. Is that your earlier.
Beliefs.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what if it's still lingering. What if there's a part of you that still kind of thinks that you haven't quite let go.
Wayne Dal: There is probably part of me that still thinks. I've done
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I never
Gwenevere Abriel: Have said the word willpower unless it's coming from what I believe is my client. I've never said let's design a goal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Around it, it's not a thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you write it down over there. I've gotta know dying to know
Wayne Dal: I guess wrote willpower.
Wayne Dal: You know, I'm just kind of just writing down what we're talking about.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know, but what are you writing about willpower.
Wayne Dal: Well, like we just say we're gonna set it we're gonna make a goal.
Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Scratch it out. No.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, I'm totally misunderstood.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm asking you if that is an old, outdated non applicable your therapist never uses the word wedding group. Have I ever said you have good willpower. Yours is for shit. You need to work on yours. When have I ever said that
Liberty.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know I BROUGHT THAT WORD OF today because I'm suspecting it's your turn.
Wayne Dal: To something I need to stop.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, don't thinking about stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because let's just try just try and
Gwenevere Abriel: Trying to find it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, tell me what part of the brain do you know all the different parts of the brain. Where does it live well then you know all about it will power. Where is it, which part of the brain left hemisphere right hemisphere part of the limbic system prefrontal cortex corpus callosum were
Wayne Dal: No idea.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you know it when you have it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know it when you don't have it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Come on, you do
Wayne Dal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so tell me when you know you've got it.
Wayne Dal: Is
Wayne Dal: Going through this program.
Wayne Dal: I think that's
Wayne Dal: Having willpower.
Gwenevere Abriel: So going through your program.
Wayne Dal: To be strong enough to to admit you know
Wayne Dal: I'm dependent. Okay.
Wayne Dal: Stop. So I think that's
Wayne Dal: That's
Wayne Dal: Willpower
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's take this as mechanized this a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: I admitted. I had a problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you need to do some
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you need to take care of some
Wayne Dal: Now, yeah, just, you know,
Wayne Dal: That's my wife, she's getting ready for word. I'm sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Admitted okay so
Gwenevere Abriel: That's an action.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a verb admitted it. I, I think I have a problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: You showed up for services.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you probably didn't want to. And you had other things she probably wanted to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that right, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And did you do activities in group and an individual therapy that were uncomfortable.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you had to do behavioral meaning thoughts.
Gwenevere Abriel: And communication and behavior. So a thought is a behavior communication is a behavior. So is picking something up dropping something off doing they're all behaviors, even a thought is a behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you had to do behavioral experiments in order to make substantial changes in your life.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Name a few of them.
Wayne Dal: Behavioral changes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Put behavior equals
Gwenevere Abriel: Thoughts
Wayne Dal: I've had to change my my way of thinking.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're writing notes so thoughts communication and actions.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now that is not all encompassing but that had some some really big, broad categories that you could probably come up with little evidences of stories. So now take a look at it and say well hat. What exactly have you done
Gwenevere Abriel: To change behavior.
Wayne Dal: Positive being positive
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey being positive. Yeah, so give me good. Let me and let me hear a positive
Gwenevere Abriel: Me here was
Just
Wayne Dal: Positive thinking just just
Wayne Dal: Said, but
Wayne Dal: Thinking of the positive and a negative situation or negative
Wayne Dal: You know, whatever the situation may be I've thought about the positive
Wayne Dal: Can come out of whatever, whatever it is, you know, I mean, instead of being being on can't do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Wayne Dal: I can think of the positive that will come out of a situation or something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And does that take effort to do that.
Wayne Dal: It used to but now I can actually
Wayne Dal: I can just think about something positive pretty quickly.
Wayne Dal: I don't have to sit there and dwell on it and
Wayne Dal: Think of something I can just it'll just come to me right away. Well, at least you know maybe this
Wayne Dal: Back with my father in law, who said, well,
Wayne Dal: You know, we really haven't been as strong.
Wayne Dal: Now, and, you know,
Wayne Dal: Maybe it'll be fine. We can
Gwenevere Abriel: My wife.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, now we have all this time together and and
Wayne Dal: It's now. Now it should be easy. It shouldn't be hard. You know, we went through all these hard times with the kids and
Wayne Dal: Your guide and now it's our time and
Wayne Dal: It's positive time. Now it's me a new time
Gwenevere Abriel: That's that's very tangible I've asked you, very difficult question just now I've asking you to to look at your note in front of you and to give me an example. And you gave an amazing one
Gwenevere Abriel: You look at a situation, and although it was more difficult before you're able to see
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, the lemonade out of the lemon, you're able to see the sunny side of it, you're able to see the upside of something and we might call that reframing you're able to reframe it
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh that's given us a chance to really, you know, my wife and I to talk about some old history with, you know, you and your father or you know it's it's looking at something, how can I make the most out of this moment that is
Gwenevere Abriel: That's an excellent example. So we look at the picture notes again. You just gave a thought as an example of a behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: That was excellent. Let's have
Gwenevere Abriel: An actual
Gwenevere Abriel: One that someone could see not just hear with their ears, while they were saying it out loud or have heard. Oh, that's what you were thinking about, that's great. But they could actually see with their eyes or it could be recorded on a video.
Gwenevere Abriel: What would be an action that evidences that you are
Gwenevere Abriel: Making a behavior change.
Wayne Dal: I think I don't know if this falls under communication or anything like that. But as far as action goes, I
Wayne Dal: I've learned to, you know, this is a big deal to say what I have to say and and that's it and
Wayne Dal: And I think that's
Wayne Dal: I don't know if that falls under action, but to me it does because people aren't people are used to seeing me differently.
Wayne Dal: Instead of seeing what I have to say and moving on.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did they, what did they
Gwenevere Abriel: What did they
See
Gwenevere Abriel: They
Wayne Dal: See me getting angry. They used to see me.
Wayne Dal: Isolate
Wayne Dal: Instead of just saying what I have to say. Moving on, and
Wayne Dal: Being happy.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we've got a cognitive one of thoughts. We've got communication as sort of a combination
Gwenevere Abriel: Work. Keep going. Come up with another one that's very, very action oriented. See if you can find one.
Wayne Dal: Well, one comes to mind. One day when when kind of live here, me and my wife had an argument and
Wayne Dal: I went outside and started doing some yard work.
Wayne Dal: And a couple hours later, I came back in and he said, you know what God
Wayne Dal: You may
Wayne Dal: Not realize that there's
Wayne Dal: Other stuff to do other than drink.
Wayne Dal: Or get high.
Wayne Dal: So I, you know, I've learned just to say my piece. And I don't know, just
Wayne Dal: To me what he told me that they just made me feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Well as he wants to do. He asked
Wayne Dal: He was watching me you know go outside and rake and pull weeds and stuff like that.
Wayne Dal: And you were sitting in
Wayne Dal: Here and you know popping open beers and
Wayne Dal: You know, I mean, so
Wayne Dal: And yelling and continuing on the argument.
Wayne Dal: So I think to me when he told me that it just, it made me feel proud and it made me happy.
Wayne Dal: But look, he noticed it. And now he knows that he can do other things too.
Gwenevere Abriel: So stuff already were hold on to that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: We kept pushing or I kept pushing. I want to know a behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: All the telling him, do the right thing, son, do the right thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: cannot replace witnessing in real time. You are in a disagreement, you got up channeled that energy when outside raped.
Gwenevere Abriel: With his own eyes. He's already feeling the disconnect with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: He's probably thinking, I like to have a drink.
Gwenevere Abriel: He witnesses, you probably having a similar experience of distress miscommunication frustration, irritability, anger, sadness to such complex human emotions.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you went outside and rate.
Gwenevere Abriel: You got through yours through movement through distraction. You got time to think through to breathe and he got to see in real time.
Gwenevere Abriel: The healthy way to manage emotions.
Gwenevere Abriel: And he said it out loud.
Gwenevere Abriel: He got to tell you, so many things happen in that exchange.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now the painful when you're ready, don't. That's why I'm talking slow. That was an awesome when you get big gold stars for that one. Now watch
Gwenevere Abriel: Sorry, my ears about
Gwenevere Abriel: Ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now picture Kenneth is there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right as the interaction with your father in law's happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you went and did what
Gwenevere Abriel: Right after
Wayne Dal: What did I do right after I
Wayne Dal: Text my wife and talk to her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice. Okay, what else
Wayne Dal: I started cleaning out his stuff.
Wayne Dal: I started packing his bags.
Okay.
Wayne Dal: You know, but I think the the major thing that I did was communicate with my wife.
Wayne Dal: And tell her what what was going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now thinking about if your son. Remember, he's trying. He's trying to work a recovery approach right and it may not just be around father in law, it may be around in March.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you do what you needed to do for your recovery right if your son, basically. Let's say he's a constant witness of what you do and what you don't do what did he see you doing
Gwenevere Abriel: With the subs innovating. Let's just say, Well, what do you see what did he see what could he
Wayne Dal: Was right there with the increase in Serbs, he saw me self medicating
Gwenevere Abriel: What would he have said if he saw that. Do you think
Wayne Dal: You'd probably do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really
Wayne Dal: I don't know, mad, maybe upset or asking me what I was doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you doing, oh, what do you think he would have said back to them.
Wayne Dal: I would have told him that I was
Wayne Dal: not feeling well.
Gwenevere Abriel: And might have said.
Gwenevere Abriel: If this is a doctor's prescription. Why don't you talk to your doctor.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, maybe your son wouldn't have but some sun might have
Yeah.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, definitely. He went to say that
Wayne Dal: Anybody who knows
Wayne Dal: Like what
Wayne Dal: How much medication, I should be taking or whatever, like that's somebody would have told me that right
Gwenevere Abriel: But in that moment, if your son had caught you right there and said, What are you doing,
Gwenevere Abriel: How could you have done the equivalent of go rake the leaves, what could you have done in that moment with a witness. It's different when we have a witness
Wayne Dal: I could have done.
Wayne Dal: Something else. Okay.
Wayne Dal: Just like I did before.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like what
Wayne Dal: Well, I
Wayne Dal: Could have gone outside. I could have, you know, there's always stuff to do around the house so
Wayne Dal: I could go outside and just
Wayne Dal: Cleaned up
Wayne Dal: Or something. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do real time now in the moment. So notice that I pressed in on probably some some discomfort on an emotion, you're probably not thrilled.
Gwenevere Abriel: With that, but what was this light for me to bring up the past like march and sort of put it because you were talking about a proud moment and then so I brought up this other one. What was it like to have them sort of sitting there right right there in the front of your working awareness.
Wayne Dal: We just made me realize that
Wayne Dal: I just need to be stronger.
Wayne Dal: I need to be
Wayne Dal: This word came up yesterday, more compassionate myself and I need to be
Wayne Dal: Proud of what I've done. And what I've learned.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you think that you could find imagining that your son was
Gwenevere Abriel: Witnessing your decisions as a as a tool for you as an instrument, could you picture that that could be what would my son think right now. What do just for a moment. What would my son. Think about how I'm coping right now.
Wayne Dal: Definitely
Gwenevere Abriel: To catch you in the act, you see.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then later on, six months from now, whenever it's
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you assess, or is this a proud moment and you can catch yourself up for now maybe starting with this idea of, if I son were a witness, would I be proud of what I'm doing to model for him, what it's like to meet life on life's terms.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to model for him.
Gwenevere Abriel: This other way that the he's enough
Gwenevere Abriel: The disagreements that sometimes our body feels like crap.
Gwenevere Abriel: And sometimes we rush and we hurry and maybe what was needed was saying out loud, I'm in a rush. I'm ashamed that I still have this darn addiction and I think I heard I needed to call my doctor and saying, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: What about that. But again, if the tool is this instrument for you. Wayne. It doesn't mean it's the same for everyone, but
Gwenevere Abriel: For now, maybe being able to have son, what would I do if someone were watching right because. Isn't that how we sort of test our morals, in a sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Would I be doing this if no one was looking, would I be doing this if someone was watching you know it's like we kind of check ourselves in that way, or am I doing this because there's no one looking, we can put our, our, sort of our beliefs to the test.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, I think that would work for me because I you know I want to make
Wayne Dal: Good example I want to be a good example for all my kids and I want to make him proud, so
Wayne Dal: That would work, definitely worked for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so way, it's a it's a temporary one probably sometime in the future. Then I'll want to pull that one back and then
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll just be you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, you'll have that
Gwenevere Abriel: Wait.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not proud, in and of itself. I want to feel proud myself and I don't need anyone watching later on. But for now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just play with this one a little bit just picturing the he were here there with you. Hey, I'm checking myself. Is this something I would do if someone was watching what's really going on. What am I feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm feeling physical distress and all of this tension in this House.
Gwenevere Abriel: How Am I addressing how am I trying to solve each one of those individually. What am I, how am I cannot. How can I get in the solution here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you just address them one by one.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're almost at the top of the hour. Let's talk a little
Gwenevere Abriel: About what today was like
Gwenevere Abriel: How did it feel, what are you noticing that's important for you.
Wayne Dal: Feel. Well, once again, I feel good.
Wayne Dal: To get
Wayne Dal: Good stuff out, talk about stuff.
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: I think I really need to concentrate on on
Wayne Dal: What we were just talking about of
Wayne Dal: Would I be acting as we're doing this stuff. If somebody was here watching
Wayne Dal: And
Wayne Dal: I guess just being
Wayne Dal: Fits
Wayne Dal: May be accountable for my actions or just for myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Accountable maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay. Yeah, it's not the most comfortable
Wayne Dal: Thing and just kind of think things through more before it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'm impressed. Today was a little different. Normally I come up with a catchy little phrase for you. We do some role plays, you have a warm fuzzy feeling, you've got a new communication approach and then you go tested and
Gwenevere Abriel: Today was different. Today I pressed in on the attic, the addictive voice I pressed him hard and I challenged it really got in there and was like, okay, let's let's have. Let's have a talk right I pressed him hard and did that feel a little, a little different.
Wayne Dal: You know, huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will confrontational even
Wayne Dal: Who wouldn't say confrontational just uncomfortable.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uncomfortable. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I want the addict to be uncomfortable. I have no problem. I will custom swear and how the language of no of his old sailor make my point. I have no problem keeping it real, but to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, that's where the, the, the love and the compassion is and what would the next loving thing be what would love to. I just, I noticed in some of the way I was talking with you today that some of the catchy little phrases
Gwenevere Abriel: They're slipping away, maybe they're not being remember is that possible.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, I haven't thought about what would love do for for for a while so
Wayne Dal: Uh huh. No, no good said that yesterday and it made me think about here. I haven't told myself that for a long time.
Wayne Dal: Couple months, you know. So I always got to keep that little phrase in my head.
Wayne Dal: Because once I tell myself that
Wayne Dal: It changes.
Wayne Dal: The way I feel like pretty much instantly, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the mantra. Yeah. Yep. Okay. Let's schedule another appointment.
Wayne Dal: Okay.
Wayne Dal: You let me know I'll be I'll be here.
Pencil
Okay.
Let's go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you want to communicate to the doctor about and you may only recognize it when you get in to group that hey you know you've had some days where you're feeling better and your confidence in using cognitive behavioral emotion regulation skills has improved.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I would invite you to have a discussion with the doctor about getting back on a taper down, just so that you don't start to think that you can't do it. I don't want you to think that you can't. I think he just went too fast. So just keep that in mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I have may 19 at 8am a Tuesday. Would that work for you.
Wayne Dal: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe the invitation. This week I'm just going to talk upside down the invitation. This week might be to
Gwenevere Abriel: Run that mantra through and
Gwenevere Abriel: With the self and with others. What would the loving thing do right now, what would love do
Gwenevere Abriel: And then also what would love do around this idea of revisiting
Tapering
Gwenevere Abriel: Just not complicating it with much more than that. And you know, when the voice of addiction comes, you can still use that same mantra.
Gwenevere Abriel: Those you're going to be an opposition, because the addict doesn't give a crap about love.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that one could work for you. The same way picture if you had a witness of someone who's respect to are trying to maintain or earn
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, both of those can work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see what happens.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, is there any bridge to today, or are you all set for medication.
Wayne Dal: I'm almost it
Gwenevere Abriel: I kind of thought so. All right, we'll be good to and it's nice to see you. Two days in a row that will
Wayne Dal: See you to
Wayne Dal: Have a good weekend.
Gwenevere Abriel: You too. Bye bye.